## Used design patterns

### MVC
* Model is represented by classes like ```User```, ```Chat```, ```Message```. These are data objects meaning that two objects with same fields are indistinguishable and should be considered as same object. 
* Controller consists of protocol classes (```I2IChatProtocol```, ```Tiny9000ChatProtocol```), each of which processes single end-to-end connection (for some time duration in case of Tiny9000 protocol). Class ```NetworkManager``` is responsible for establishing new end-to-end connection (or reconnecting in case of Tiny9000). 
* View is composed of ```MainWindow``` together with ```LoginDialog```, who reacts to user input and to events triggered by controller classes.

### Proxy
In order to properly test protocols avoiding usage of real network, reduced interfaces for udp and tcp sockets were developed. This also has the benefit of ability in future (if desired) to implement other communication methods between peers, maybe not involving sockets at all. For example, consider two thin clients connected to one server, then it would be possible to easily implement communication via pipes or shared memory. 

Long story short, when using ```NetwokManager``` we give it it's dependencies - udp/tcp socket implementations, and these dependencies can be wither proxies for QSockets or something completely different (dependency injection!).

### Observer (improved)
Classical observer pattern idea is that there are some observable objects and objects, who observer them. When something happens with observable object, it executes callbacks for all subscribed observers. This is used all over GUI (and not only GUI). Qt benefit is that it provides a clean way of implementing this pattern with simple syntax of signals and slots. 

This is used by protocols (they emit signals when e.g. some data is arrived: appeared new online I2I client, the message is received, etc), by ```NetworkManager``` (emits signals which are caught mainly by UI to respond to controller events), and by UI (for example, ```MainWindow``` notifies ```NetworkManager``` about events like new connection or new message generated by user).

### Mediator
In some cases ```NetworkManager``` plays role of mediator between UI and protocols: together with doing some useful work, it usually resends events from protocols to UI and sometimes in an opposite direction. 